>> Kadi Kraman: Welcome to this
Intermediate React Native course, you've
learned the fundamentals of React Native,
so your views, your text, your components,
you know the fundamental building blocks,
and you are interested in learning more.
And that's awesome, so welcome back and
in this intermediate course,
we're going to go beyond
the basing building
block of React Native development and
beyond Expo Go.
By the end of this course,
I hope that you're going to feel that
you have all the tools, resources and
knowledge at your disposal for building
production video apps with React Native.
So material wise, this course will
follow up from the introduction course,
but we will be building
a brand-new app from scratch.
In this course, we're going to cover some
additional topics that didn't make it into
the intro course.
And halfway through,
we're actually going to also leave
behind the Expo Go sandbox and
work with development builds, so
I had a couple of features that
wouldn't otherwise be possible.
I just mentioned that it is possible
to bypass setting up your local
build environment for development builds
and building the clouds with EIS,
but for this course, we're going to
build our development client locally.
It is incredibly useful to know how to
do this even if you are using EIS for
your development builds because it will
help you debug more complex functionality
down the line or if you ever want
to create your own native module,
it will be easier to iterate on it.
So for this workshop, you will need to
have your native dev environment set up
for at least one platform.
Just a quick introduction, well [LAUGH]
just a quick hi from me, so hi,
my name is Kadi, and
I was really fortunate to actually get
into React Native really early on, and
I have remained a huge fan of building
mobile apps and React Native in general.
I've been really fortunate, I've worked on
a lot of interesting projects, I guess one
notable one was I was a tech lead on
building the Puma app from scratch.
And aside from consultancy work,
I've been an active member of
the React Native Community,
I've contributed to some Open Source, and
I've also presented in some conferences.
>> Kadi Kraman: I also spearheaded
building the React Conf app, so
this was the conference app for
React Conf in 2024, and
we built it actually as an end-to-end
example that's in stores,
that's also Open Source,
that you can go and pick through and
see what building a production app
with expert actually looks like.
I currently work at Expo and hoping to
bring more people into the amazing world
of building mobile apps with React Native.
So for this course, to follow along,
you will need a Mac Windows or
Linux machine with Node.js installed.
And we're going to start with Expo Go,
so you should have an iOS or
an Android phone as well.
And finally, you will need to set up your
development environment for either iOS or
Android or both, but
I recommend using one to begin with.
And just for a bit of housekeeping for
the course format, we have
this course website, which you hopefully
have access to, it's on GitHub pages.
>> Kadi Kraman: And in this course, we're
going to be learning by doing, I mean,
that's my preferred way to learn.
So we're going to build a little
app completely from scratch, and
it's gonna be an app to remind
you to water your plants.
I don't know about you,
but I always forget, so
I definitely need to remind for that.
And we're going to build
this incrementally and
introduce things that we didn't
cover in the intro course, and
I'm going to point out various
concepts and common patterns as we go.
This app will also have an on-boarding
step after which you can add some plants
to look after, and we'll explore
some new concepts underway, so for
example, dynamic routes, quick actions,
gradients, and build signing.
On this course website, I'm going to
follow a consistent structure, so
everything that I'm going to cover is
also available on the course website.
So if you fall behind, or you feel like
you want some additional information,
there's plenty of links and
resources here.
All the bash commands that you'll
need to run in your terminal
will be here in a code block,
and everything that I code will
be in these collapsible drawers as
either diffs or full components.
And at the end of each section, where
we've added any code to our app, I'll also
add this checkpoint, and the checkpoint
will point to a commit in the core
solutions repo, which will just have
a diff of all the things that we've added.
So if you look at the history of
the commits, it will be a commit for
each section, so if you get lost you
can pick up from the relevant section.
I also have some annotations here,
so I might use a tip or
a warning annotation, so
tip is just to highlight some
useful information related
to the lesson that we're on.
And a warning is usually to
offer some debugging tips or
cautions against common anti-patterns.
I think that's it for housekeeping,
I hope you will enjoy the course.